Allow adding links after span creation (#2278)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/trace/api.md

  Whenever possible, users SHOULD set any already known attributes at span creation
  instead of calling `SetAttribute` later.
- [`Link`s](../overview.md#links-between-spans) - an ordered sequence of links.
  Additionally, these links may be used to make a sampling decision as
  noted in [sampling description](sdk.md#sampling). An empty collection will be
  assumed if not specified.

  Whenever possible, users SHOULD set any already known links at span creation

>   instead of calling `AddLink` later.

Reviewer: This sentence is out of place. It is for the user of OpenTelemetry, this specification is for developers implementing OpenTelemetry APIs and SDKs.

Possibly, this should be restated as an action for the intended audience by documenting the constraint in the `AddLink` section?

Reviewer: > I tried to be consistent with the wording used for attributes (see above):

Ah, I see where this came from. Thanks for pointing it out.
I still think we should not copy poorly written specification. Doing so will only duplicate the original error.

> I guess if we do the suggested change, we should do it for both?

Agreed, we should try to remain consistent. Though I would make the change to the existing specification as a separate PR so as not to overload this.

Author: I opened a PR for this: #2383

Author: An update for attributes was merged in the separate PR #2383, the text for links is updated in this PR.

[wrapping it into a Span](#wrapping-a-spancontext-in-a-span).
For example, a `Propagator` performing context extraction may need this.

> #### Specifying links

Reviewer 2: Should we keep this section?  I don't think that we can remove the existing API for specifying links at creation time.  Instead, we should simply remove the last sentence of the first paragraph here:

> ~~`Link`s cannot be added after Span creation~~

Author: > I don't think that we can remove the existing API for specifying links at creation time.

Right, the API for creating a span is still required to accept a list of links (see above). In addition, a method for adding links after span creation is added as a _should_.

I tried to structure this in a way similar to attributes, where the situation is similar (attributes can be added at creation time and after span creation). I'm open to change this, if it's clearer in another way.

Author: > Perhaps we can create a separate "Links" subsection that describes what a link is (arguably the same could be done for Events however Events don't make sense at create time)

Any other opinions on this? Otherwise, I'll go ahead the change the PR according to the suggestion.

present during span creation. Any changes done later, including new or changed
attributes, cannot change their decisions.

#### Add Links

> A `Span` MUST have the ability to add `Link`s associated with it. Linked

Reviewer 3: nit: a MUST to have a new method in a stable API is a breaking change. I suggest making it a SHOULD.

Author: Changed from `MUST` to `SHOULD`.

Reviewer 4: @yurishkuro why is a "breaking" change? I am a bit confused about this, maybe we should define what is and what is not allowed to do.

Reviewer 3: if I implement an interface and you add a method to it, my code might not compile anymore.

Author: > maybe we should define what is and what is not allowed to do.

It is defined: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/versioning-and-stability.md#api-stability

According to what's required there, I think @yurishkuro is correct that this cannot be a MUST.

`Span`s can be from the same or a different trace (see
[Links between spans](../overview.md#links-between-spans)).

A `Link` is structurally defined by the following properties:

- `SpanContext` of the `Span` to link to.
- Zero or more [`Attributes`](../common/common.md#attributes) further describing
  the link.

The Span interface SHOULD provide:

- An API to record a single `Link` where the `Link` properties are passed as
  arguments. This MAY be called `AddLink`. This API takes the `SpanContext` of
  the `Span` to link to and optional `Attributes`, either as individual
  parameters or as an immutable object encapsulating them, whichever is most
  appropriate for the language. Implementations MAY ignore links with an
  [invalid](#isvalid) `SpanContext`.

The Span interface MAY provide:

- An API to set multiple `Link`s at once, where the `Link`s are passed in a
  single method call.

> Links SHOULD preserve the order in which they're set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spans SHOULD preserve the order in which Links are set.
```

Right?

Note that [Samplers](sdk.md#sampler) can only consider information already
present during span creation. Any `Link`s added later cannot change their

> decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
decisions. This limitation SHOULD be documented where the add links functionality is implemented.
```
